article and then immediately fell
asleep took a good two and something
hour nap I
think
um we're going to try some
stuff we're g to try some stuff
so let me see what I want to do how I
want to do this
I guess we can just do this in our
standard uh standard environment do I
want to make a repo for this or do I
where do I want to do this I'm trying to
think
um I think we'll just
do yeah we'll do this in the docker
[Music]
in easy thing is to not make a repo and
just just do puffer Branch
right so I haven't written C in a very
long time at least not
substantially
um the easiest way to not look dumb when
trying to remember how to do something
is to do it when you're so completely
and utterly thrashed that you have a
great excuse as to why stuff is hard
that's what we're going to do right
now let me think how I'm going to set up
the dev environment for this because I'm
not just trying to do c I'm trying to do
something very
specific with
C I think what we're going to try to do
um so the idea of what I want to do
right now is I want to figure out if
porting some some stuff not everything
not hopefully not the environments but
just maybe porting
the
um if maybe just
porting the renderers of a few things to
see can let me put them
online because if I can put some stuff
online that's going to make it really a
lot easier for me to like get some of
the stuff out there stuff like the snake
make renderer maybe if it that's easy we
can do the MOBA
renderer but there's like a big stack of
stuff if I just have to deal with a
little bit of C I'm happy if I have to
start dealing with JavaScript ecosystem
I'm going to be mad I'll show you what I
was looking at that inspired this
um let me find the
post let me see where is it not the
video
not this one there was like a post by
the original Dev on how to do
examples some of them are in Zig as well
that's cool I was considering that I
think we're going to start with just
C where is this darn
post uh how to
run RB on
web what the hell is this
I swear that the uh the creator of this
made a
post where they had the whole set up for
everything is it in just examples is it
in the main repo
okay lots of
examples where's the compilation
stuff oh this is
cool
wait they actually have in the examples
that you can just compile them with
Zig that's kind of
cool okay we might actually do that
because I do want
it's either going to be this or clang
I'm not writing C without at least some
tools
um
build okay so this is this but how do I
do
wasm uh RB
compile awesome
here I don't need there was something
from the original
creator this might
work oh wait is this it yeah I think
it's this
one okay perfect Raab can be
assembly all right cool we can do this
now download the mcrip SDK
all right this might not be S this might
not be that bad let's let's
actually tiny little optimized repo for
once well
done all right
cool
so this is this uses node G I hate this
already
then why the hell do we need node for
Source
M SDK
dot where is
[Music]
it
slash m
script
M there it
is okay
this compile
RB Raab must be recompiled for HTML 5
gen I assume that we want to clone rayb
then right
yeah we need to clone
rayb so we need the source that's fine
oops let's make sure we don't lose the
original page
this is slightly annoying but if um if
once all the setup is good I like the
workflow of stuff I can always just have
this be in puffer tank
[Music]
so let's see what it
Not for Windows users don't need
that before compiling
[Music]
RB all tools need to be correctly
clang Python and node for
this why do we need why do we need
Python and node to run C code
okay so this is where the the directory
is to run this from
so we just go into
rayb
sour and
then I guess I just run all of these
right
enough to compile directly from the cam
okay so I don't need this make file then
right I don't need this make file stuff
if you optionally want to compile the
provide examples for the
web there's another make file to
configure I want to compile like one of
them to play with
differences this is what we want compile
R Li game for web
okay so there's some stuff here
so there's a file called Min shell.
HTML does this already have that Argan
there path to shall Tim
so we need to go grab one of the
examples right
examples core core
[Music]
C why there pngs for
this wait
oh those are thumbnails we're fine we
don't need those I don't
bet I'm uh this is just like low energy
chill stream for a bit because I am
quite fried
and to
do it buildg
game.
game grats I'll be on in a few cool
am I
dumb path
to does this mean
I I actually don't know this Inn text
like
is this like a flag the teammate or am I
actually supposed to put in my
own
um hold on
weird I actually would not have thought
that that's really freaking
weird it's like it's like this flag with
a path in it
G lfw =
3 shell file
and this one they says
and
force
minich
okay PL
web error
okay what I do
wrong R.H not
jippy okay so we have a build here
now can I open this
I think I can right if I just do
copy
build docker
nothing appears to be
here
see okay
so to test the newly created HTML
server HTML
file okay this is what you have to
do it will allow you to okay so maybe
this does it
then oh from where your HTML file is Loc
at
right no it says I have uh 8,000
up I should be able to do
see it requires Python
3 well yeah obviously
FAQ this looks like it should be fine
right Local Host
here let's try
this I think I only have this one
opened hey there there you go so it's
getting this HTTP server now works but I
have a black
tools
uncomp please compile your
program with async
support okay
okay so apparently we already need
that okay so this does actually compile
and I have actually gotten this to run
on
start I'm definitely not losing this
command this is obnoxious right
this I'm just going to type a bunch of
really stupid questions into GPT in
order to figure out what the hell's
going on
here because I don't
understand so the thing I don't
understand right is like we wrote this
in C to be able to compile to wasm to
run on the web but for some reason we
still need Python and node somewhere in
here doesn't that defeat the point
C to
laom why can I not just
run Blom
without the huge extra depth of
node you end up with awom file
that okay this first thing doesn't make
any
sense wait what the [ __ ] where is
M
script I guess this is part of M script
right I think maybe the python was just
for this HTTP
server um what no but it's provided by
mscripts well what the
hell okay I don't understand what is
going on here
the M script and Tool
chain cling Python and
node what the hell do I
have node
for
Java oh optional okay good
assembly does that mean I have node code
somewhere in here though
path I can't tell if this is just a
different use of the same
I don't understand why the hell this
thing requires
I I saw something I didn't like before
in here that there was like
yeah I don't understand how like there's
a binding for
nodejs but not for JavaScript like
I'm not writing the
um I don't want to write this [ __ ] in
Java Script right
I'm trying to think what the workflow
would look like for
okay there's just like the the thing
that's bothering is me is there's like
there are more tools involved than I
would want there to be
right like why is node a dependency why
is python a dependency here right this
is web
stuff I could just try to start
implementing um
implementing some stuff
though also I need to figure out how to
make this thing work with python
right yeah there's got to be I need to
be able to
think there's got to be able to be a
python back end
which is really weird because like H
everything is freaking backwards like
everything is freaking
backwards like writing C on the front
end and python on the back end like this
doesn't make any sense
okay let me just keep going I'm going to
try
to if I can at least get the dat dat to
go
from from the back end to here in a way
that's reasonable then maybe there's a
way to do this cuz that would still save
me a bunch of effort
I don't think there's going to be an
easy way to do
this I think it's going to be web
sockets
right this is slow web sockets are way
faster right
web
sockets in C code use
sense example using
web
so python web
sockets [ __ ] all
but how the hell is this going to
work because this has to be passed
to this has to be passed to the web
assembly
right which is not doing
here okay there is literally like a
built-in okay there is a built-in web
socket
cool do it's
JavaScript so actually connecting these
two is not hard but
it and why is the front and ecosystem
such a garbage mess
I'm trying to think what I if there's
another thing I know of that does
this maybe I just have to be more
specific here but I doubt
is this just not a reasonable way to do
anything
here there's so many things wrong with
this though right because like now my
server has to do all the game processing
as
well so if I just ported the entire
thing to see then obviously yeah you'd
be able
to uh you'd be able to
play the thing
online but i' still have the issue of
not being able to run the neural Nets
online let me see if it actually gave me
something something
reasonable python websocket server
yeah RB front end in
c.
State okay so you can just call
functions
from this is calling a c function on
this side so this is actually not that
bad this is not that bad I think versus
writing the whole freaking game in pure
C this is substantially
maybe I'm trying to think what else I
could compile to web
assembly I mean this wouldn't be
terrible
right like the renderers are pretty
simple and then you'd be able to run
them locally or in a
browser that's pretty nice
I mean really the simplest possible
thing would be
um just streaming the uh streaming the
game but then the thing is it's still I
don't want the game processing to have
to be run on the
server I definitely don't want the
maybe I should just
make the snake game and
see just to get a sense of how hard it
would be and then figure out from there
how to integrate like torch script
because then I don't have to deal with
web sockets right
that's pretty
appealing yeah essentially if I just
write the whole thing and
see then I can just run it
all uh I can just run it all in the
browser and I can just
load uh I can just load like the torch
script model right and then that also
runs in the users browser so that's very
nice and scalable
now I don't think I would commit to
having to do everything like this
because it's going to make it harder for
people to actually make environments for
this but I do I have wanted to just
write some
C so I mean this is like a cool excuse
even if I just do it for the snake
environment right it's a cool excuse to
do
that
okay I hate this substantially less
now so yeah technically to compile and
serve this stuff there's like a python
and node dependency which is Jank but
then from there it's like the actual
everything is just going to be the C
code which is
fine I mean this this turned out about
as well as I would
expect let me figure this out
now I'd like to start actually
implementing this environment now let me
think if I've got any energy in me I've
got a meeting in an hour
so I think what I'll do is I'll I'll
work on this for like 40 minutes I'll
see if I get
anywhere I don't want to just use GPT to
convert
this right
yeah actually this is easier than I
would think because I can just go I can
do this in separate stages right I can
do the backend logic
first and then the front end logic
that'll be easier won't
it
yeah okay that makes a little bit more
sense so we do know though we we we got
an important data point we which is that
it is actually relatively
straightforward to compile stuff uh to
wasam with RB which is good
snake uh oh I still have to figure out
the bindings though
right okay let me just copy
then real
like C snake
pix
snake.
H and I can just start rewriting this
right
and then I'll figure out the bindings
later I'm a little confused though what
I'm going to do with the data
structures writing the logic in C is not
the hard part that's going to actually
be
fun this is
the issue is going to be getting these
tensors into
C we're going to be asking chat jippy a
bunch of d dumb questions today it's
just how it's going to
it's given me two of these and I don't
know which and they're completely
different I'm going to like the one that
has all the code in one
spot
so here's your
code okay it just takes double star data
[ __ ] yeah this is just absolutely
disgusting
um let me think what my alternatives are
still I don't know if there's a way
other than going through scon can you
like C types this somehow
memory updated I hate the pi hates the
pi object API it's
funny okay this is way better because
this is
like I'd rather have the gross stuff be
on the python side
there's also the thing as I could
just no I can't bind it with syon right
because I still
need wait hold on let me
think let me think about
this how am I going to get the damn data
into the torch
cffi you know I could just keep the uh
The scon Binding
um no because you have to I have to
allocate the memory in
in see
right which is a little
different kind of makes stuff harder
doesn't
obnoxious cuz I'm sort of like I'm I'm
torn in two directions here right
like if I could put some some of these
environments online it would just be
really really good for showing off
puffer stuff
right but at the same time it's like the
exact opposite for getting people to be
able to use these environments for stuff
or like to be able to make more
environments because nobody else is
going to freaking do this right nobody
else is going to write these
environments and see
but still like the idea of having like a
three 400 line
script that just does all of this
is very
appealing also um if I do the rayb
rendering right
in if I do the rayb rendering in
C it's going to
be much much
faster I'll probably be able to throw
together some really cool demos
so I guess the only thing that's
difficult in my head is just the
integration the barrier between Python
and
yeah I'm trying to think how I want to
even start doing this if I start
by if I just keep the scon uh file for
now just for the to handle the memory
allocation and I write the logic in
C that doesn't really get me anywhere
right because I still can't use the
environment online then I need the whole
thing to be there uh if I start by
writing the renderer Inc that still
doesn't get me anywhere because I would
need to do websocket Shenanigans which I
don't want to do
I mean I'd pretty much just have to
rewrite the whole n
Inc and then figure out from
I could just start with that treated as
a fun project see how bad the code is
and go from there
right that's kind of appealing
yeah I guess we just don't worry too
much about the integration layer for now
and we just
write we just write like the M
Inc that's probably the way to do
it move this
away I'm going to probably have to
figure out a bunch of I haven't read C
in so long um
constants oh it doesn't pick up the um
the fact that we're in raw C now right
so I got to get rid of all this gra this
garbage
void step all well we don't even need
this vectorized thing yet do
we we can actually just get rid of
this the first thing is that we don't
have uh we don't have classes anymore we
have
struct so we have struct
Char uh but the thing is it's
not it's not going to be fixed like
this that's
hard what do you do when you need
persistent memory that's not in a struct
wa I'm confused now actually what do you
do when you
need wow objectoriented programming has
like fried my brains holy hell more than
the
50k
um okay world's dumbest question world's
dumbest questions times
oh it's just going to be you have a
pointer right and then you have an inip
function right I'm just
dumb yeah yeah I'm totally just
dumb totally totally just dumb right so
all you do here is you allocate
it's star
grid
right that's how it works when you have
you just do a pointer to a
2d yeah it's just going to be star
pointer
because the pointer treating a pointer
is it's like a list right pointer gets
treated like a
list
yeah and bent is not a type that exists
bull standard bull
yeah okay that's not that
bad and then what we do is
it oh and then they do the they do the
Ford declarations at the top usually
don't they that's I've been so
long this is not actually that bad
though so far
Malik wait you can't oh yeah you can
Malik this because
it's you can Mal like this because uh
the pointers have fixed size
right M like
Malik there way too many Malak calls
though oh that's actually kind of cool
this is going to let me do state based
stuff in the future because I could do
it all with one Mallet call and then I
could yeah yeah yeah okay that's
interesting
okay oh okay that's
it so now we get rid of
observations it's just going to have n
so we do void compute observations and
we'll fix the casing of
indexing but let's say that we just keep
going for now
so this sets the
okay void spawn
right there's no way it's this short
right yeah no it needs
I'm just tabing code at this point I
this is really it's language translation
so it's not a bad idea to have this be
the first draft I think I would be
better off if I'm going to do it this
way just getting the whole first draft
right I don't really feel comfortable
doing that though
I mean to be fair this is a really good
use case because it's just straight up
translation I already wrote all the
code uh am I going to be debugging dumb
claw issues though for for
hours I mean this is a really good
excuse to try it
557 all right let's I've been meaning to
try cuz like GPT has been so [ __ ] I
swear though if if everybody's just been
gaslighting me and this model is just as
bad I am just muting all LM discussion
for the next year until it catches
see oh I should probably do this on the
other account hold on
because every time basically anytime I
say like y GPT fails people say oh use
Claude which I don't think is going to
be a huge difference but I could be
wrong uh
yep let me do this
let me set an alarm for uh so I got a
call in half an
hour so do this for 20 minutes we're
just going to see if this thing gives me
a reasonable draft of something
oh wait Sonet is I forgot that they had
Sonet for free as well which that's
ridiculous
here you can see the original is perf
optimized not do
any
copies this is
four this is a a
reinforcement learning
environment needs to be
here we'll grab it from the we'll grab
it from
online holy when did this hit 790 that's
awesome did we pass ample
Factory yeah we passed ample Factory
holy hell
I'd be way more enthusiastic right now
if
um if I weren't totally fried but holy
hell thank you guys that's awesome
that's really
awesome well we're going to have some
crazy stuff happening in the next month
or so here with puffer it'll be good
this is just kind of for fun and like
this will if this works basically this
will be a really nice way to like
promote puffer and like have stuff be
usable across platform um this is not
what we're going to do with everything
though for
damn hey Roman thanks I'm kind of just
chilling out for the next 15 20 minutes
doing a little bit of exploratory work
um if I can figure out how to get the
environment to BC and like run P torch
models from torch script then I'd be
able to put online demos where it's like
play snake with a 4,000 AIS in real time
online in your browser which would be a
really cool demo uh I just kind of want
to see how hard it is cuz like it's
occurred to me right like Claude exists
I already have the code it just needs to
be translated and then I have to tweak
it right it's not that bad maybe
and as much as I hate language models
for pretty much everything like
translating code from one language to
another is a very good use
okay so it gives
me type def struct
snake it did a few interesting things
here didn't
it just spawn a new
snake oh that's funny it replaces it
with a do while to avoid the that's kind
of
kind of
nice it's funny that the C actually the
C code kind of uses more fancy syntax
than my python
does because I write like I write very
very simple python is he got do ws and
switch statements and
stuff tried setting up the project on my
machine didn't have enough time to get
through the python version
errors
really it's not supposed to be a mess
um do you have like python 311 if you're
getting errors in like you know 311 or
whatever like yeah let me like you can
just post the errors and I actually do
look at them and fix
stuff or at the very least if it's like
user error I put stuff to like make it
more clear right I'll put better me
messages
it's actually really really valuable
like the only way that puffer gets
better is if when stuff goes wrong is if
you report it because otherwise I don't
know and I can't fix it
okay so this is kind of interesting
because this still doesn't this is still
zero
okay uh I don't know what the hell's
always wrong with my my Vim copy paste
it's so
screwy I got to fix that
eventually
um I might just well I don't have time
to really fix it now let me let me just
copy this to a file and I'll like mess
with this
later use air since I don't W okay yeah
if you document pain points like let me
know for
okay this is
decent e
that I really want to write some of my
own C though
not just have claw translate stuff but I
guess it makes sense for this
I guess it makes sense for this
because
yeah the reason it makes sense for this
is because I already have the code
scon so technically if I just make I
figure out the glue for all of this um
this is kind of a simple enough task
that at least for this the easier M's I
can probably just write them on syon and
translate but the idea of writing stuff
in C is just very appealing to me like
there actually is a lot of just
simplification
here hi
yeah the first The scon Binding is bad
but I can fix
that oh I see why it yeah okay
I'll ask it to just cuz there are rate
limits I'll ask you to Port this last
going I'm just messing around today for
a little bit like I can't really do
anything serious um I'm still fried
from I mean I this was on Twitter I
realized most of my audience doesn't see
this stuff
but uh I am currently fried from
um from
this freaking
50k yesterday so I'm kind of just
chilling in trying some
stuff um I'm trying to get Claude to
like give me an initial Port of my thing
to of one of my Ms to see to see if it
actually works and to see if I like it
and to see if I can like put it on the
web and stuff but probably messing
around today tomorrow maybe a little bit
Thursday and then I'll be back to the
normal stuff unless this actually starts
working really well and which case I'll
keep going with it we'll see but yeah
that's what we're that's where we're at
at the
moment still trying to figure out spaces
bet I will help you as soon as I can
think
again this what I'm doing here does not
qualify as thinking like I would
probably have a very hard time I'm
adding two five-digit numbers in my head
right
now yeah it did work before but it might
have worked in like
0.7 so they're like they're very well it
could be like
0.7 yeah I got to go in a couple minutes
because I got a call as
well when running it isn't running
problem that would if that's not working
like yeah we need to we'll talk about
that
um here let me make so I get around the
usage limits real quick
literally it will just start porting
code before I give it any code so that's
a strike against
it just run squared it pretends still
going to work on this very likely D
types aren't going to work together well
they are going to work together because
it's a main thing in puffer and I can
guarantee you I did have that working
before so something broke um
yeah anyways I have got to go get ready
for this thing and I'm probably going to
be asleep after that so I'll be back
tomorrow but yeah bet don't drive
yourself nuts if you think something's
really broken I'll like I can work on
this on stream or whatever with you
tomorrow okay or like maybe not tomorrow
but like this week all
right thanks everyone also um just to
show like this is crazy that I like I
took a couple days off and this is at
791 so thank you everyone for this this
is just awesome um I really appreciate
the support on this like this is
crazy Star
Puffer yeah star of the repo helps me
out a whole ton there's more RL that's
going to happen in the next little bit
here um in a few more days I just got to
recover basically from this